Data visualisation
==================

Data visualisation is the visual communication of information and data generated by 
different research processes in an understandable, clear and effective manner.

<hr>


 01 . Dygraphs


Help visitors explore dense data sets with JavaScript library Dygraphs
Dygraphs is a fast, flexible open source JavaScript charting library that allows users to explore and interpret dense data sets. It's highly customizable, works in all major browsers, and you can even pinch to zoom on mobile/tablet devices.

02. ZingChart


ZingChart lets you create HTML5 Canvas charts and more
ZingChart is a JavaScript charting library and feature-rich API set that lets you build interactive Flash or HTML5 charts. It offer over 100 chart types to fit your data.

03. InstantAtlas


InstantAtlas enables you to create highly engaging visualisations around map data
If you're looking for a data viz tool with mapping, InstantAtlas is worth checking out. This tool enables you to create highly-interactive dynamic and profile reports that combine statistics and map data to create engaging data visualizations.

04. Timeline

Timeline creates beautiful interactive visualizations
Timeline is a fantastic widget which renders a beautiful interactive timeline that responds to the user's mouse, making it easy to create advanced timelines that convey a lot of information in a compressed space. Each element can be clicked to reveal more in-depth information, making this a great way to give a big-picture view while still providing full detail.


<hr> 
### References
- http://www.creativebloq.com/design-tools/data-visualization-712402
