What is Data Visualization
======================================

- Data visualisation is the visual communication of information and data generated by different research processes in an understandable, clear and effective manner.

- Information visualization is the method of presenting information as a visual representation to help in the understanding of unrelated data elements. This helps to correlate casual relationships of data into examples of meaningful information.

- In the area of problem solving, visual representations of data have proven to be the most effective way of communicating information. Information visualization is used daily throughout society in the forms of weather maps, geospatial technology, graphs, and maps. The primary benefit of using pictures to represent data is the unique ability to disseminate relevant information quickly as compared to interpretation provided by reading basic words and numbers.

#### Online Data Visualization
- Online data visualization takes the complex network of information available on the Internet and simplifies it. While there are many different visualization programs, online data visualization focuses solely on the Internet and not on files found on a computer. This type of program takes information from the Internet and turns it into a graphics network. The reason for the graphics is to make the information easier to comprehend, because it usually is easier to look at and differentiate graphics when compared to a massive amount of text. Most online visualization programs are segmented, and they typically do not capture everything on the Internet.

- The majority of data visualization programs perform a similar task, but there is a difference between online data visualization and the other programs. Most of the other programs are made to visualize local information, such as that on a desktop or server. With the online version, only online information is captured and displayed. This program is meant to capture online information, so these programs are often web-based; they are normally not downloaded and stored on the hard drive.

#### Open Source Visualization

- A dataset can hold a tremendous amount of information. It can, however, be difficult to discern any of this information by looking at its individual entries. Open source data visualization software allows data analysts, and other individuals, to illustrate and analyze specific information from large datasets for free.

- Different types of information are best illustrated with different types of charts, graphs, or graphics. Simple examples of data visualization include line graphs and pie charts. Line graphs show trends in the change of numerical data over time, such as the fluctuation in a product's prices or sales numbers. Pie charts display concentrations of data categories — such as the percentage of voters that selected a particular candidate for office, or demographic information about those voters.

- More sophisticated information requires more complex visualizations. Network analysis, a growing area in quantitative research, is one such method that requires advanced visualization software. This involves charting the connections between different data entries to discern information about complex relationships between data points. Creating a visual representation of such a network from a dataset requires software that can run the calculations necessary to automatically position nodes, which represent individual data entries, in a three-dimensional space to be connected with lines.
